Density Dependent Force Matching Supplement to MSCG FM Manual
-------------------------------------------------------------
Author: Jacob Wagner
Created: August 28, 2012
Updated: August 30, 2016
Edited:  June   14, 2017

Purpose: This describes the extension to the Multi-scale Coarse-graining (MS-CG)
force-matching (FM) software to include density dependent potentials/forces.
Please read the MSCGFM manual before using the code to understand how the rest of 
the code works.

A) Methodology
--------------
A function of density is added to the potential, which creates a density dependent force 
that can be force matched using this code similar to pair nonbonded or three-body forces 
the code.

The density is calculated as a sum of pair interaction distances using a weight function. 
Thus, the local density at a ("home") particle is the sum of these weighted interactions 
with all other ("other") included particles. Unlike other interactions, the distinction 
between be the "home" particle and "others" means that the first and second labels for an 
interaction are not interchangable. So, all combinations of "home" and "other" need to be 
specified. The fitting functions are linear splines or b-splines of the density.

The forces reported are force as a function of density. The forces in a simultion should 
be calculated as a function of the individual particles, which is the product of the 
derivative calculated by the spline multiplied by the derivative of density with respect 
to distance. 

There are three different weight functions implemented in the code. 
All weight functions are shifted-force versions. 
   1) Gaussian weight functions have one free parameter (sigma or width of the 
      distribution).
   2) Swithcing functions are of the form tanh( (r - a)/b ) with two free parameters: 
      a is switching distance and b is the steepnees of the switching function 
      (similar to the width of the Gaussian). 
   3) Lucy-style weight function is a fourth order polynomial whose value and derivative 
      automatically goes to 0 at the cutoff smoothly with no free parameters. 
   4) Relative-entropy style weight function is a sixth-order polynomial whose value
      and derivative goes to 0 at the cutoff. This function approximates a switching
      function and has a parameter that controls where this switching starts.

All of these weight functions additionally depend on the cut-off for density 
interactions.

B) Input Parameters
-------------------
A number of options and inputs are changed to accomodate this change in three of the input 
files: 
	* control.in
	* top.in
	* den.prm
	* rmin_den.in

B.1) control.in (needed for all programs)
   The added flags/parameters can be placed anywhere in the file, but it is suggested to 
   put them at the end. These parameters are listed with their default values in 
   parenthesis. If the default value is acceptable, the value does not need to be 
   included in this file.
 
   density_interactions_flag (0)
      * 0: no density_nonbonded interactions
      * 1: Gaussian weight function
      * 2: Switching (tanh) weight function
      * 3: Lucy-style weight function
      * 4: Relative-entropy style weight function
   density_basis_set_resolution (0.05) 
      The spacing between spline control points for density interaction basis sets 
   density_nonbonded_output_binwidth (0.05) 
      The spacing between tabulated force output for density interactions 
   density_bspline_basis_order (4)
      B-spline order used in density interaction basis sets 
   density_cutoff_distance (10.0)
      Typically this is the same distance as the cutoff for pair nonbonded interactions

   output_density_parameter_distribution (0)
      Whether or not to output the distribution of densities sampled and 
      a histogram using the pair_bond_basis_set_resolution as the binwidth 
      (rangefinder only)
      * 0: no
      * 1: yes
   
B.2) top.in (needed for all programs)
   The added flags/values should be placed right before the "moltypes" parameter 
   (which is after the "cgtypes" and any "three_body" terms).
   The section begins with the parameter "density_nonbonded" and the nubmer of different 
   "density groups" defined for the system.
   The subsequent lines list the name of the "density group" followed by the type numbers 
   for all sites that belong to the density groups
 
   The format of entries for this additional section in top.in is the following:
   density_nonbonded ND (* ND = Total number of density groups)
   n1 t1-1 ... t1-n1    (Each line should list the name of the density group n1)
                        ( as well as each of the n1 types in this density group)
                        ( going from t1-1 to t1-n1 on the same line) 
   . . ... .            (There should be ND total lines in this section defining all
                        ( ND density groups)
 
B.3) den.prm (needed for rangefinder.x)
   The calculation of density depends on the value of the free parameters for each 
   "density group"-"density group" interaction. 
   Since rmin* files are not read by rangefinder, they need to be specified in a separate 
   file called "den.prm". In this file, All ordered pairs of density groups need to be 
   listed along with their free parameters.
   Note: The number of free parameters needed after the density group pairing depends on
   the type of density interaction:
   * 1 parameter for Gaussian weight functions (sigma or steepness)
   * 2 parameters for switching weight functions (steepness, switching distance)
   * 0 parameters for Lucy weight functions

   The format of entries in den.prm for interactions is the following:
   DG1-1 DG1-2 P1-1 ... P1-n (* DG1-1, DG1-2 = first pairing of density groups, where)
                             (  DG1-1 is the "home" and DG1-2 is the "other" group)
                             (* P1-1 ... P1-n are the required parameters based on the)
                             (  type of density interaction)
   . . . ... .               (The total number of lines should be the square of the 
   							 ( number of density groups defined in top.in)
 
B.4) rmin_den.in (needed for newfm.x)
   The range of densities, the action to be performed (tabulated, force match, none), 
   and the free parameters should be given next to the order pairs of density groups.
 
   The format of entries in rmin_den.in for interactions is the following:
   DG1-1 DG1-2 Dl Dh mode P1-1 ... P1-n (* DG1-1, DG1-2 = first pairing of density groups,
                             ( where  DG1-1 is the "home" and DG1-2 is the "other" group)
                             (The lower Dl and upper Dh values for this interaction)
                             (* P1-1 ... P1-n are the required parameters based on the)
                             (  type of density interaction)
   . . . ... .               (The total number of lines should be the square of the 
   							 ( number of density groups defined in top.in)
   
C) Output Files
   1) rmin_den.in
   In addition to the normal outputs, rangefinder will generate rmin_den.in, which will 
   include the minimum and maximum densities observed in the format described above.
 
   Also, rangefinder can output the distribution of densities observed and generate a 
   histogram for each ordered pair of density groups using the 
   "output_density_parameter_distribution" flag in control.in.
 
   2) Force Matched Interactions (dg1_dg2_den.dat and the corresponding *.table)
   These files contain the tabulated force as a function of density for the range and 
   spacing specified. This is the spline contribution to the force. In order to get the 
   actual force, this value needs to be multiplied by the density derviative with 
   respect to position.
 
D) Other Comments
   Trying to fit both pair non-bonded and density interactions is unlikely to be 
   successful because of the strong possibility that  the fitting may interact between
   the two to give unexpected pair forces.